# Setup Front-End on MacOS
This document describes how to setup and run the APLaC Chat front-end web page locally on your Mac machine.

This front-end web page accepts the text that the user types in, sends the text to the Chat component and shows the result.

## Setup Environment (MacOS X + .NET Core 2.0)
The front-end web page is developed with .NET Core 2.0 + MySQL|SQLite and MacOS is used as the development machine. And finally it will be deployed on a web hosting server but it's not described in this document.

### Things required in advance
* .NET Core 2.0 SDK for Mac
* Visual Studio Code for Mac

### Database Installation
You can choose either MySQL or SQLite for the application database. Here we have the option for SQLite because MySQL(MariaDB) requires middle-high CPU resource and it is too much for AWS EC2 t2.nano instance.

### MySQL
Install MySQL to your Mac by [downloading the installer](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/), following the [installation guide](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-osx-excerpt/5.5/en/osx-installation-pkg.html).
Also get [MySQL Workbench](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/.)

During the installation the configurations were all set to default. In the end a dialogue appears with a root username and password.
root@localhost: fxRpOWPx0h?f

MySQL server is now installed, but it is not loaded (started) by default. Use either launchctl from the command line, or start MySQL by clicking "Start" using the MySQL preference pane.

The initial password needs to be changed before you start using MySQL in the application. Open up MySQL Workbench and select the localhost server. Then it will ask for update.

#### Default Character Set
The default character set of MySQL v5.7 is latin1, the collation is latin1_swedish_ci. This causes error when UTF8 is entered. Since we want to store Japanese text and other international languages, we want to make sure 4 byte UTF8 is used. Note 3 byte UTF8, which is pretty much standard in general, is not good to store EMOJIs. So we will set 'utf8mb4' as character set configuration of MySQL.

This workaround is done in Entity Framework Core. Refer to [Text Character Set] section below.

### SQLite
We assume SQLite is preinstalled on your MacOS X. Type the command below to confirm.
```
sqlite3 -version
```

### Application Configuration
You need different configuration whether you are debugging locally or the package is deployed on producion. In APLaC Chat front-end, it is done by environment variables.

There are following environment variables that are specific to APLaC Chat front-end application.
* CHAT_EMBED_URL - The URL which points to the chat frame page that is designed to be embedded into the parent page using iframe HTML tag.
* CHAT_INFER_URL - The URL which plays a role of APLaC Chat inference API. This URL receives POST requests with text, and returns the resulted text which is the result of NMT Inference.
* CONNECTION_APPDB - The DB connection string to access to the application DB on MySQL.

The above environment variables are set by Visual Studio Code when you debug locally, and set in command terminal when it goes on production.

## Visual Studio Code Configuration
In this project we use Visual Studio Code for debugging. During the debug session the environment variables are set by VSC and those values are stored in `.vscode/launch.json` file. This file is not included in the git repository so you need to add it your self. Usually it is auto-generated by VSC when you open the project folder and start debug session. 
To set the environment variables, add values in the `env` element like below.
```
  "env": {
    "ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT": "Development",
    "ASPNETCORE_URLS": "http://localhost:5051",
    "CHAT_EMBED_URL": "http://localhost:5051/Embed/Index",
    "CHAT_INFER_URL": "http://localhost:5000/infer"
  },
```

### URL Port Number when you debug locally
During your debug session, if you use a single development machine usually the front-end web page and the chat inference run on the same machine. In this case they must have a different port number appended to the local address. This is becaues they are running as a different web server and they will collide if they use the same port. To avoid this, set different port number to `CHAT_EMBED_URL` and `CHAT_INFER_URL`. Also `ASPNETCORE_URLS` should share the same port number with `CHAT_EMBED_URL` because they both refer to the front-end web pages.

### Launch URL when you start debug session
The launch URL for web browsers can also be set in `launchBrowser` element, for Google Chrome
```
  "osx": {
    "command": "open",
    "args": "-a /Applications/\"Google Chrome.app\" --args ${auto-detect-url}"
  },
```

## Build and Deployment (TBD)
*When you deploy the .NET Core project on Linux server, follow this section. As of Feb.2018, this section is not complete yet and left as a side node.*

First we generate a publish package with ```dotnet``` command into a self-contained directory that can run on the server.
```
dotnet publish -c Release --self-contained -r linux-x64
```
Refer to [a list of Runtime Identifiers (RIDs)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/rid-catalog#linux-rids) that is set as the runtime option (-r).
The package folder ```publish``` is generated under bin folder. opy this folder to the server using SCP, FTP, or other file transfer method.

### Reference
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/linux-nginx?tabs=aspnetcore2x

## Development Notes
This section keeps the record of key notes, references and other important points that are found during the development.

### .NET Core Project Generation and Configuration

#### Project Template
The original project structure is generated by .NET SDK as Razor Pages Project.
```
dotnet new razor -o frontend
```

#### Add Bundler Minifier
Add the bundler minifier NuGet package which is required to generate .min.css and .min.js files. Otherwise those files won't be updated when you build the project.
```
dotnet add package BuildBundlerMinifier
```

#### Add Entity Framework Core
Add Entity Framework Core with data provider of either MySQL or SQLite.
Choose either of below.
```
dotnet add package Pomelo.EntityFrameworkCore.MySql     # for MySQL
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite # for SQLite
```
And then run below.
```
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Design
```
```Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools``` is required to use ```dotnet ef``` CLI commands. Type ```dotnet ef -h``` to confirm if successfully setup. If doesn't work, try reopen the terminal.
To use the command in Visual Studio Code integrated terminal, add the following line into frontend.csproj and make sure to run ```dotnet restore```.
```
<ItemGroup>
    <DotNetCliToolReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools.DotNet" Version="2.0.2" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In ```ApplicationDbContext``` class the following lines configure the database provider. Note the connection string is set as environment variable ```CONNECTION_APPDB```.
```
  protected override void OnConfiguring(DbContextOptionsBuilder optionsBuilder)
  {
      IConfigurationRoot configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
          .AddEnvironmentVariables()
          .Build();
      var sqlConnection = configuration.GetSection("CONNECTION_APPDB").Value;
      optionsBuilder.UseMySql(sqlConnection);   // for MySQL
      optionsBuilder.UseSqlite(sqlConnection);  // for SQLite
  }
```

After declaring ApplicationDbContext class, run EF commands for migrations. The initial creation of database can be done with the following command which adds a new migration entry named 'CreateDatabase'.
```
dotnet ef migrations add CreateDatabase
```
Enter the following command to execute the migration that updates the database according to the model design. Also it creates database if doesn't exit.
```
dotnet ef database update
```

If the command fails make sure the environment variable is correctly set.

### Text Character Set (MySQL specific)
There is a requirement that MySQL tables can contain text characters in UTF8 codec, primarily for Japanese language. To do this, text columns in MySQL tables have to be set 'utf8mb4' in character set property, and SQL query below shows an example.
```
CREATE TABLE t1
(
    col1 CHAR(10) CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci
)
```
The above ```CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci``` part is required.

We expect data annotation attribute classes in ```MySQL.Data.EntityFrameworkCore``` do this job. However as of Mar.2018 this isn't going well. Version 6.10.6. and 8.0.10-rc are tested but both didn't work.
Instead, it ended up with ```ColumnType``` attribute using fluent API of the original entity framework core. Both workarounds are described below.

#### MySQL.Data.EntityFrameworkCore (failed)
Add MySQL.Data.EntityFrameworkCore package with command below.
```
dotnet add package MySql.Data.EntityFrameworkCore
```
This package is required for detailed data annotations for EF Core.

The MySQL data annotation is for specifying MySQL text character set and collation. ```MySqlCharsetAttribute``` and ```MySqlCollationAttribute``` are related. This time, since we want to focus on Japanese lanagueage and MySQL 'utf8' character set is not enough to contain EMOJIs, 'utf8mb4' is used instead.

The code below add both character set and collation to ```Input``` column of ```ChatRecord``` table.
```
  modelBuilder.Entity<ChatRecord>(b =>
  {
      b.Property(p => p.Input).ForMySQLHasCharset("utf8mb4");
      b.Property(p => p.Input).ForMySQLHasCollation("utf8mb4_general_ci");
  });
```

For more information, [here](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-net/en/connector-net-entityframework-core-charset.html).

#### ColumnType Attribute (success)
Both data type and character set parameters are set together with HasColumnType method as below.
```
  modelBuilder.Entity<ChatRecord>(b =>
  {
      b.Metadata.Relational().TableName = "ChatRecords";
      b.Property(p => p.Input).HasColumnType("text CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci");
  });
```
The above code generate SQL query below.
```
CREATE TABLE `ChatRecords` (
    `Id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `Input` text CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci,
    CONSTRAINT `PK_ChatRecords` PRIMARY KEY (`Id`)
);
```



### Test Run on Windows
.NET Core is cross-platform. You can run frontend on a Windows machine.
#### 1. Install .NET Core SDK 2.0 for Windows
#### 2. Open the console and move to the frontend folder
#### 3. Start local server
Run the following commands.
```
SET CHAT_EMBED_URL=http://aplac-chat.koni4.net/Embed
SET CHAT_INFER_URL=http://<AWS EC2 Instance Domain>/infer
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```
